Lets break down what a service is and how
it’s used.
Services are used to encapsulate logic that
can be re-used across multiple components.
Services contain methods that does the work
of getting or updating some data.
That data could be coming from a JSON file
located in one of our folders, an external
API, or from our database.
We need to have a way for our components to
access these methods.
Sure we could directly import them into components,
but this is not ideal as it would make our
components brittle and potentially incur side
effects such as race conditions if multiple
components are attempting to update some data
at the same time.
That’s why Angular allows us to register
our service with a Injector.
The injector then creates and manages a Single
instance of the service known as a Singleton
that can then be be injected into any number
of components that needs access to the service
without compromising the data or the state
of our application.
Lets look at the 3 steps to creating and using
a service.
The first step is to create a new file.
The naming convention is to use the name of
our service feature followed by the keyword
service along with the typescript extension.
Inside our file we need to import Injectable.
Injectable is a decorator that is used to
manage our service instance.
And we’re also importing the IBook interface.
We declare our Injectable decorator above
the class.
Remember, decorators add metadata or you could
say added functionality to the class.
By declaring Injectable in this way, it allows
us to inject the BookService class as a Singleton
into components.
Then inside the class we’ll be defining
some methods that will do the work of getting
and updating books.
Next, we need to declare our new service inside
our NgModule.
We do this inside a new key called providers.
This is telling Angular that we want to provide
a singleton instance of BookService whenever
BookService is injected into a component.
And then we’re able to import and use our
BookService inside any of our components.
Here we’re importing our Book interface
along with the bookService.
We need to add our BookService inside our
constructor parameter.
This will initialize the service for use below.
Then we’re able to create methods inside
the class that have access to the methods
inside our service such as getBooks.
This can be a lot to absorb if its your first
time seeing this stuff.
That’s why we’ll be going over this in
more detail along with some examples.
But lets start with a better explanation of
what this Constructor method actually is.